Apply for Job
Job ID312372
Location
Calgary, Alberta, Canada
Full/Part Time: Full-Time
Regular/Temporary: Regular

If you are committed to public service, enjoy collaborating with others, share our values and have a desire to learn and grow, join The City of Calgary . City employees deliver the services, run the programs and operate the facilities which make a difference in our community. We support work-life balance, promote physical and psychological safety, and offer competitive wages, pensions, and benefits . Together we make Calgary a great place to make a living, a great place to make a life.
 
The City is committed to fostering a respectful, inclusive and equitable workplace which is representative of the community we serve. We welcome those who have demonstrated a commitment to upholding the values of equity, diversity, inclusion, anti-racism and reconciliation. Applications are encouraged from members of groups that are historically disadvantaged and underrepresented. Accommodations are available during the hiring process, upon request. 
As a Data Analyst, you will work directly with the Urban Forestry team in the Parks & Open Spaces business unit by collecting, analyzing and reporting on data to support strategic decisions and contribute to operational and capital outcomes. You will have experience and technical skills to translate complex data and information into business insights and recommendations. You will be responsible for developing and presenting reports, dashboards, and data models. In addition to strong data analytical competencies, the person in this role will be required to operate independently and execute with confidence and accuracy. It is also expected that the Data Analyst will apply creativity and the most advanced and up-to-date research skills to assigned work. Primary duties include:

Discover, collect, clean, interpret, then analyze large complex data sets using best available statistical techniques and business intelligence tools.
Develop, manage, track and maintain data and databases.
Create maps, visualizations, models, dashboards and reports to formulate solutions and support recommendations.
Contribute to the development and maintenance of corporate analytical visualizations and dashboards.
Produce technical documents for processes, methods and models.
Investigate and stay up to date on local, national, and global data resources that impact both the organization and urban forestry industry.
Support and contribute to cross-departmental projects and processes; that require data to be analyzed and used to inform reporting or decision-making; and
Communicate the results and provide guidance on the use and interpretation of relevant data sources and assist with resolving issues.

Qualifications 
A degree in Computer Science or a related field which includes course work in data collection and analysis, business intelligence, statistics, data science, or computer programming.
At least 8 years of job experience working with large, complex data sets through the entire data cycle (data discovery, collection, cleaning, analysis, knowledge translation and reporting.) 
Work experience which occurred within the past 10 years, was diverse and progressively more responsible in nature, and involved using a variety of programming languages and data management/interpretation software or tools will be considered an asset.
Proficiency in the use of SQL or Python programming languages, Excel or R statistical packages, the creation of data visualizations and dashboards through Power BI or Tableau and the ability to create and analyze maps using ESRI products will be considered assets. 
The ability to assess current processes for gaps and improvements in data collection will be considered an asset.
Experience in the natural sciences, horticulture, urban forestry or arboriculture will be considered an asset.
Candidates must be able to demonstrate skill and resourcefulness in identifying and testing new datasets, assessing data accuracy and integrity, and validating data sources for their usefulness for project work.
Candidates must be able to demonstrate the ability to effectively communicate the results and insights of data investigations, provide expert advice and strategic recommendations and influence decision-making at a senior management level.
Candidates must be able to initiate, plan, execute, control and close a project, to meet project objectives within specified parameters.
The successful candidate will have the ability to operate independently, execute their duties with confidence and accuracy, apply creativity to their work and employ innovative research tools/techniques. 

 
Pre-employment Requirements 
Successful applicants must provide proof of qualifications.

Union: CUPE Local 38
Business Unit: Parks & Open Spaces
Position Type: 1 Permanent 
Location: 111 17 Street SE
Compensation: Pay Grade 11 $44.76 - 59.84 per hour 
Days of Work: This position typically works a 
5 day work week, with 1 day off in each 3 week cycle. 
Hours of work: Standard 35 hour work week 
Audience: Internal/External 
Apply By: August 1, 2025
 
Job ID #: 312372
